I conducted network analysis using data from a project by researchers from Washington University, for which they assigned US
Supreme Court cases a legal issue. The data I selected for my analysis were the cases under the legal issues of immigration:
citizenship and deportation. 

![figure1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455808/33510175-fa103d1c-d6d6-11e7-9ed0-8e00acc323fe.png)

The image above illustrates a network showing the distribution of cases under the two different issues. There is a total of 60 
cases categorized under the issue of deportation and 7 cases under the issue of naturalization. 


Meanwhile, the network below shows the case distribution of cases by year between 1950 and 2000. 

![figure2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455808/33510186-2ac90e48-d6d7-11e7-988d-7f4070e60b4c.png)

As we can see there was a greater concentration of cases in between the 1950s and the 1970s (purple and blue) than in the 
later years (green and yellow). Looking at this network made me question whether this distribution could be a reflection of 
the two immigration reforms that occured in the 60s and 80s. In 1965 an immigration reform was passed known as the Hart-Celler 
Act, which changed the quota system based on national origins established in the 1920s. The 1986 reform made it illegal to 
hire undocumented immigrants knowingly and legalized immigrants who entered the United States before 1982. While the reform of 
1986 addressed many immigration issues from earlier years, the reform of 1965 did not have the expected results. Some legal 
issues that the 1965 reform was supposed to correct were only temporarily solved and quota issues reemerged in the 
1990s resulting  on further changes to the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965. In order to test whther the density of 
case distribution by year was a reflection of these immigration events, I created the following network distributing the cases 
into clusters

![figure3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455808/33510517-dec769d2-d6da-11e7-8e90-7af2e32a0888.png)

Cluster 1 showed consisted mainly of earlier cases from the 1950, clusters 5 and 6 consisted mostly of cases between the 1950s 
and the 1960s (prior to the immigration reform of 1965), and cluster 7 consisted mostly of cases from the 1980s and the 1990s 
(after the immigration reform of 1986). Looking at the network, one could see the clusters changing in accordance with 
legislative changes through time. Also, interestingly, cluster 2 even showed the connection between the 1990 act that 
introduced changes to the 1965 immigration reform by consisting only of cases from the 1960s and the 1990s. Overall, the 
network division into clusters supported initial hypothesis that the density of cases by year was a reflection of legislature 
being passed in the 60s and 80s. 

After finding this, I had further questions regarding the impact of legal precedence and how cases impacted one another as 
well as new legislature being passed. To evaluate how cases influenced one another a created the following network showing 
centrality.

![figure4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455808/33510889-dbe55990-d6df-11e7-99b6-7ede99c4d1d8.png)

After looking at this network I found that some of the most influential cases were also some of the oldest. In fact, the case 
with the most centrality was Marcello v. Bonds from 1954. In my opinion, this shows the importance of analyzing court cases 
through networks that show the relationship between current and past cases to understand the precedents that influence court 
decions. 

Recent politics have brought to attention current immigration issues. As of today, there are over 11 million undocumented 
immigrants living in the United States and many politicians agree that we might need another immigration reform to address 
this issue. Analyzing the relentionship in case precedence and the connection between cases brought to the Supreme Court and  
new legislature to adress the issues these cases brought to attention could be a usuful tool to make sense of the current 
problems with our immigration system, potential approaches to solve them, and even point out some of the results past similar 
policies have brought within legal cases.  

Network analysis can be a very useful tool to illustrate relationships but it also has a number of limits. In general, network 
analysis is most useful when it is used to capture simpler relationships. ”Most algorithms were only created to deal with 
networks with one variety of node” (Moretti, Network Theory, Plot Analysis, 2011) Another limitation of network analysis is 
that one can lose very important aspects of context when presenting data as networks being that humanistic data is often open 
to interpretation, while networks show more concrete relations. As Franco Moretti argues, “one thing the last few decades has 
taught us is that perspectives are essential, and any model of humanity that does not take into account its multifaceted 
nature is doomed to be forever incomplete” (Moretti, Network Theory, Plot Analysis, 2011). There general limitations are also 
applicable to my project in the sense that one has to be careful when deciding the size of data and what kind of relationships 
we want to find. Also, it is important to keep in mind that although networks show relationships, they do not always paint a 
complete picture when it comes to context. 

