The process of creating GIS maps often begins though georeferencing- the process of connecting a paper map/image to a base map
with spatial coordinates. In georeferencing, the two maps are connected by finding multiple reference points known as control
points in both maps. Unfortunately, for a map to be precise it often needs hundreds of points. Therefore, instead of 
georectifying the map from scratch we began our projects using a map from Mapping Inequality. Maps from the Mapping Inequality 
website had already been georectified by students working for the DSL who had already added the points necessary to make the 
map more precise. Once we downloaded the our georectified map, we used ArcMap to add block 	groups and census tracts data. We 
added block group data to the historic map through color symbology, which reflected values of properties.



![figure 1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455808/32684200-748922c2-c64f-11e7-916f-9ccc1b44aa5b.PNG)

![figure 2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455808/32684294-40ee2114-c650-11e7-8484-c97f559eb2a1.PNG)

![figure 3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31455808/32684304-50b0520c-c650-11e7-99f3-97e59938d0cb.PNG)


The census uses different variations of boundaries to collect data, including block groups. Figure 2 shows block groups of the 
city of Dallas, TX. Something important to note is that while Figure 1 shows the map of Dallas, TX as a place, Figure 2 shows 
the characteristics of each block as a space in reference to the racial makeup that gives each block a unique identity. Figure 
2 symbolically represents blocks racial makeup (e.g. white, black, Native American, Asian, Hawaiian, and other). As Amy 
Hillier points out in her article Red Lining in Philadelphia, GIS helps us see the spatial patterns that constitute bigger 
social issues such as redlining (Hillier, Red Lining in Philadelphia, 2002). Furthermore, unfortunately for the United 
States, it has been found that race has a big impact in the opportunities and living conditions of people. For this reason, 
while Figure 1 shows objective spacial relations in location (place), Figure 2 shows block groups in connection to their 
racial composition which reflects an additional layer in identity and the subjective experience that results from this extra 
layer (space). Figure 3 shows the overlapping of figures 1 and 2 with a 50% transparency.


While studying Figure 1 in connection to other projects such as Mapping Inequality and Social Explorer I found a certain 
correlation between the racial composition shown in Figure 1 and the ratings of different residential areas as well as income
and education. In connection to the mapping inequality map, there is a certain correlation between the racial composition of 
blocks and the rating of the area as “A (best), B (still desirable), C (definitely declining), and D (hazardous)”. Mostly 
white areas receive a grade A or B, while less white areas are more likely to receive a grade C or D than the other areas. 
Furthermore, Less white areas also often show a lower education of residents as well as a lower income. The social 
disadvantages that resulted from discriminatory systems of the past took such deep roots that although we have experience some
social improvements in racial equality, we can still see their mark. 

Richard White argues visualizations of spatial history not only serve as illustrations to model findings but they are “a means 
of doing research; it generates questions that might otherwise go unasked, it reveals historical relations that might 
otherwise go unnoticed, and it undermines, or substantiates, stories upon which our versions of the past" (White, What is 
Spatial History?, 2010). Some questions that Figure 2 and 3 generate include changes over time and explanations for these 
changes. Maps illustrate single instances, while changes are gradual. Although we can compare maps and investigate their 
connection it is difficult to see how these connections changed over time. Furthermore, finding a pattern is always more 
useful if we can also find an explanation. Using Figures 2 and 3 we could raise questions regarding the policies and social 
practice that led to the current patterns illustrated in the Figures. Lastly, Figures 2 and 3 can make one wonder about the 
further implications in space that have resulted from its demographics and how the subjective experience of space has changes 
for the people over time. 

While studying Figure 1 in connection to other projects such as Mapping Inequality and Social Explorer I found a certain 
correlation between the racial composition shown in Figure 1 and the ratings of different residential areas as well as income 
and education. In connection to the mapping inequality map, there is a certain correlation between the racial composition of 
blocks and the rating of the area as “A (best), B (still desirable), C (definitely declining), and D (hazardous)”. Mostly 
white areas receive a grade A or B, while less white areas are more likely to receive a grade C or D than the other areas. 
Furthermore, Less white areas also often show a lower education of residents as well as a lower income. The social 
disadvantages that resulted from discriminatory systems of the past took such deep roots that although we have experience some 
social improvements in racial equality, we can still see their mark. 

A challenge of representing space and place is the difficulty to link different geographical and temporal information. 
Bordenhamer states there are “many analyses existing at different geographical and temporal scales and few efforts to link 
them” (Borenhamer, Beyond GIS, 2013). Even though it is difficult and requires further research, it is important to not think 
of spaces as isolated in place and time but study how change in spaces happens in response to internal factors and in relation
with each other. 
